Distribution click action mode (#1993)
Phobos-developers/Phobos: docs/User-Interface.md

- Deselect 1 or 5 object(s) from current selected objects.
- For localization add `TXT_DESELECT`, `TXT_DESELECT_DESC`, `TXT_DESELECT5` and `TXT_DESELECT5_DESC` into your `.csf` file.

> ### `[ ]` Distribution Mode Spread / Filter / Enable

Reviewer: I wonder if we could assign it by default to something like C? or maybe (crazy idea) holding X (and making specifically the release of the same hotkey in a short time scattering)?

Author: I believe the current architecture does not allow the same key to be used for different functions.

> - Now you can change the click action by using `AllowSwitchNoMoveCommand` hotkey. If the behavior to be executed by the current techno is different from the behavior displayed by the mouse, and the behavior to be executed will make the techno move near the target, the behavior will be replaced with area guard. Regardless of whether or not switch hotkey is used, default behavior can be changed through `DefaultApplyNoMoveCommand`.

Reviewer: 1. I don't think this has to be in Distribution Mode docs
2. it's not clear what this does, is it a toggle for "fallback" behavior if different from the mouse one and allows disabling it? if so - maybe `UnavailableActionFallsBackToMove=action` will be more intuitive? or `UnavailableActionFallBack=none/action` (defaults to move), with customisability per type (not sure what handles actions, MissionType?) maybe useful?

> - Now you can also change the click action when hold down the specific hotkey if enabled `AllowDistributionCommand`. The new behavior is like using the selected objects one by one to click on each target within the spread range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now distribute commands across similar targets in a specified range when holding down a hotkey if `AllowDistributionCommand` is enabled. This behavior is like using the selected objects one by one to click on each target within the spread range.
```

>   - The targets within the spread range will be allocated equally to the selected technos. Only when the behavior to be performed by the current techno is the same as that displayed by the mouse will it be allocated. Otherwise, it will return to the original default behavior of the game (it will not be effective for technos in the air). This will display a range ring.

Reviewer: > Otherwise, it will return to the original default behavior of the game

do you mean the move fallback? if so - you should mention that and/or link it

> (it will not be effective for technos in the air)

hmm?

>   - `DefaultDistributionSpreadRange` controls the initial spread range, which is a number that's corresponding to the amount of cell radius * 512.

Reviewer: we should probably move the modes description earlier
```suggestion
  - `DefaultDistributionSpreadRange` controls the initial spread range for the scrollwheel mode, which is a number that's corresponding to the amount of cell radius * 512.
```

- `AllowDistributionCommand.SpreadModeHotKey` allows you to cycle through preset spread ranges by hotkey. There're 4 tiers of range that can be selected by this hotkey which are identical to 0, 4, 8 and 16 cells.
  - When the range is 0, it is the original default behavior of the game.
- `AllowDistributionCommand.UseClick` controls whether distribution mode is activated by clicking on a target. When set to false, distribution mode only works via press-and-drag, and the range ring will only be shown while dragging.
- You can also adjust spread range by using the mouse wheel while holding down the specific hotkey if `AllowDistributionCommand.SpreadModeScroll` set to true. This allows a more precise control of spread range that each step will increase/decrease it by `DistributionSpreadScrollStep`, with 20 cells as its maximum value.

> - `AllowDistributionCommand.SpreadModeDrag` allows you to adjust the spread range by pressing and dragging the mouse while holding down the specific hotkey. The drag distance from the starting point determines the spread range. This can naturally co-exist with `SpreadModeScroll`.

Reviewer: Does it issue the command on drag release? if so - it should be mentioned in documentation.

> - `AllowDistributionCommand.FilterMode` allows you to set target filter by hotkey, which default to `DefaultDistributionFilterMode`.

Reviewer: I am not sure how this tag works? at least from the documentation

Author: Set it to false, and it will function exactly as you described earlier. It is fully tailored for you.

Reviewer: so this is a toggle between togglable and not togglable mode? I am not sure why this needs to be customised at `rulesmd.ini` level though?

  - When the filter is `None`, it is the default behavior of the game. If the range is not zero at this time, a green ring will be displayed. You can adjust the filter mode to:
    - `Like` - only targets with the same armor type (Completely identical `Armor`) will be selected among the targets allocated in the range. At this time, a blue ring will be displayed.
    - `Type` - only targets of the same type (like infantries, vehicles or buildings) will be selected among the targets allocated in the range. At this time, a yellow ring will be displayed.
    - `Name` - only targets of the same name (or with the same `GroupAs`) will be selected among the targets allocated in the range. At this time, a red ring will be displayed.

> - `AllowDistributionCommand.AffectsAllies`, `AllowDistributionCommand.AffectsEnemies` & `AllowDistributionCommand.AffectsNeutral` allow the distribution command to work on allies (including owner), enemies or neutral target. If picking a target that's not eligible, it'll fallback to vanilla command.

Reviewer: I don't think this is needed? It should derive this info from context. If I select a healer unit and distribute - it should heal any similar unit, with similar in this context being a friendly eligible target. Same for attacking, if it's hostile then attack it.

Author: Too complicated to write such an algorithm

Author: Moreover, I'm convinced that even if you develop such an algorithm, some people will still be dissatisfied.

Reviewer: I don't see how it is complicated. You already have filtering on weapon/warhead level. Filter out those whose cursor would show the same action and be done with it. no need to overthink it.

Even then, if you think this won't be enough, those flags are the wrong customisation. You're just cutting away the feature instead of placing customisations in decisions where it's not obvious what would be better.

- It's possible to add a button for distribution mode in the bottom bar by adding `DistributionMode` in the `ButtonList` of `AdvancedCommandBar` and `MultiplayerAdvancedCommandBar`.
  - The positions of each button are hardcoded, so it'll only decide whether enable this button or not. Distribute Mode button is now always listed after all the vanilla ones.
  - The asset of these buttons should be added in `sidec0x.mix` files which correspond to different sides, with the name `button12.shp`.

> - For localization add `TXT_SWITCH_NOMOVE`, `TXT_DISTR_SPREAD`, `TXT_DISTR_FILTER`, `TXT_DISTR_HOLDDOWN`, `TXT_SWITCH_NOMOVE_DESC`, `TXT_DISTR_SPREAD_DESC`, `TXT_DISTR_FILTER_DESC`, `TXT_DISTR_HOLDDOWN_DESC`, `MSG:DistributionModeOn`, `MSG:DistributionModeOff`, `TIP:DistributionMode` into your `.csf` file.

Reviewer: Does this work exactly like waypoint mode hotkey? sound and a message when on/off, pressing on the bottom bar enables it on/off, and holding hotkey will also activate it (releasing deactivates).

I think this should be mentioned.

In `rulesmd.ini`:
```ini
[GlobalControls]
AllowSwitchNoMoveCommand=false                      ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand=false                      ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand.SpreadModeHotKey=true       ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand.SpreadModeScroll=true      ; boolean

> AllowDistributionCommand.SpreadModeDrag=true        ; boolean

Reviewer: I don't think it should be controlled from `rules.ini`. Control schemes are not up to mod author.

The mod author should be able to enable or disable the feature (because it significantly alters the gameplay), but the players must be able to choose their preferred implementation themselves via `RA2MD.ini`.

AllowDistributionCommand.UseClick=true              ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand.FilterMode=true            ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand.AffectsAllies=true         ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand.AffectsEnemies=true        ; boolean
AllowDistributionCommand.AffectsNeutral=true        ; boolean

[AudioVisual]
StartDistributionModeSound=                         ; sound entry

> EndDistributionModeSound=                           ; sound entry

Reviewer: let's default this to the same sound as waypoint mode

> AddDistributionModeCommandSound=                    ; sound entry

Reviewer: what's this about
